docs/_build/html/_sources/index.rst, before:

.. FFRM documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Wed Mar 26 16:59:17 2025.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

.. _welcome:

===========================================
Welcome to the documentation of ``FFRM``!
===========================================

* - .. image:: _static/FFRMWorkflow.jpg
       :width: 80%
       :alt: FFRMWorkflow
       :align: center

**F**\ossil **F**\uel **R**\etirement **M**\odel (FFRM) is an open-source Python-based fossil fuel retirement model. It was originally developed by the `World Bank <https://www.worldbank.org/>`_ as a coal retirement optimisation model. It can be used to estimate the stranded cost associated with retiring fossil fuel power plants.

The model utilises a `Pyomo-based optimisation framework <http://www.pyomo.org>`_ to endogenously calculate stranded cost, taking into consideration commercial and market issues. It uses projections for capacity and production of fossil fuel power plants to explore their retirement profile under two types of price regimes: **PPA** and **Market Price regime**. The model assesses at what capacity fossil fuel power plants become stranded and explores how this influences total compensation for stranded plants.

The model is designed to complement more detailed long-term capacity expansion models, such as OSeMOSYS, but can also be used as a standalone retirement model.

Background
==========

A model was developed by the World Bank to assess stranded cost under various defined scenarios. 
The model defines stranded cost as the difference in plant revenue. In particular, the foregone revenue 
of plants that reach the end of their economic life in the decarbonisation scenarios, relative to the baseline scenario.

Aims
====

The objective function of the model is set as maximisation of the net revenue at the fossil fuel power plants fleet, based on either:

- **Financial analysis** of Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs), where these are in place with known contractual terms.
- **Economic optimization** of the market price, where marginal costs derived from a least-cost planning are considered.

The difference in net revenue between the BAU and a decarbonization scenario is used as a measure of foregone revenue.

Contents
========

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
 
   
   Install <install>
   Examples <examples> 
   Contributors <contributors>
   License <License>  
   Change Log <ChangeLog>
   Key Publications <KeyPublications>

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex` 
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

Edits to readthedocs to include model structure

docs/_build/html/_sources/index.rst, after:

.. FFRM documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Wed Mar 26 16:59:17 2025.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

.. _welcome:

===========================================
Welcome to the documentation of ``FFRM``!
===========================================

* - .. image:: _static/FFRMWorkflow.jpg
       :width: 80%
       :alt: FFRMWorkflow
       :align: center

**F**\ossil **F**\uel **R**\etirement **M**\odel (FFRM) is an open-source Python-based fossil fuel retirement model. It was originally developed by the `World Bank <https://www.worldbank.org/>`_ as a coal retirement optimisation model. It can be used to estimate the stranded cost associated with retiring fossil fuel power plants.

The model utilises a `Pyomo-based optimisation framework <http://www.pyomo.org>`_ to endogenously calculate stranded cost, taking into consideration commercial and market issues. It uses projections for capacity and production of fossil fuel power plants to explore their retirement profile under two types of price regimes: **PPA** and **Market Price regime**. The model assesses at what capacity fossil fuel power plants become stranded and explores how this influences total compensation for stranded plants.

The model is designed to complement more detailed long-term capacity expansion models, such as OSeMOSYS, TIMES, LEAP, and others, but but can also be used as a standalone retirement model.

Background
==========

A model was developed by the World Bank to assess stranded cost under various defined scenarios. 
The model defines stranded cost as the difference in plant revenue. In particular, the foregone revenue 
of plants that reach the end of their economic life in the decarbonisation scenarios, relative to the baseline scenario. A recent application of the tool by Suski et al (2022) can be found `here <https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0973082622002022>`_, in which a GAMS-based version of FFRM was applied to the power sectors of India and the Philippines to calculate the stranded cost implications of early retirement of its coal fleet.

Aims
====

The objective function of the model is set as maximisation of the net revenue at the fossil fuel power plants fleet, based on either:

- **Financial analysis** of Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs), where these are in place with known contractual terms.
- **Economic optimization** of the market price, where marginal costs derived from a least-cost planning are considered.

The difference in net revenue between the BAU and a decarbonization scenario is used as a measure of foregone revenue.

Contents
========

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
 
   
   Install <install>
   Structure <equations>
   Examples <examples> 
   Contributors <contributors>
   License <License>  
   Change Log <ChangeLog>
   Key Publications <KeyPublications>

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex` 
* :ref:`search`
